# wavesim
a simulator where you can bounce dots and make cool waves (school assignment)

This project was created as a submission for a school assignment where we had an introduction to code and used resources like Scratch or Google CS Tutorials to make games. During the first few days I experimented with Scratch (which I had prior experience with but not as much as Java or Luau). I prefered simulators over games and found them much more satisfying, which can be seen with the Scratch projects I have created (mainly physics tests). After experimenting with Scratch for a while, I made the decision to expand to text-based code since it gives much more freedom and opportunity. I decided to recreate the "Ball Simulator" I had in Scratch, but this time focusing on the satisfying experience of watching bouncing waves.

The code here features a running loop on a separate thread and basic physics (dots bouncing on walls and reflecting). I also added text instructions for anyone interested (probably no one) and statistics to help with debugging. Dots also decay after hitting walls, which almost always results in simulations ending satisfyingly with one final unified hit. The original version had a fixed amount of 12k dots and would clear every time you generated a new wave or random dots, which was extremely unsatisfying. Users would often "troll" each other and clear the simulation right before the satisfying conclusion. To change this, I had to rework the framework carefully. To shift from fixed arrays storing dot parameters (e.g. dotCoords[][], dotOpacity[]) to an ArrayList (basically an array that works more intuitively, it is more high level) of a custom WavePoint class, I kept the arrays first while also adding the new system and changed every line of code (in some cases, rewriting logic from scratch) to reference the new system instead of the old. This was a process I found to be very effective, and in the end no bugs were encountered (a miracle!).

Throughout the development of the first and second version I have found and fixed many bugs. These bugs were the icon of computer programming and what makes it frustrating yet fun. One example would be when dots would be bouncing either too early (before the edge of the screen) or too late (beyond the window). I found soon that the issue was that the piece of code that checks for collision on the Y axis was referencing the WIDTH of the screen instead of the height (a classical effect of copy pasting and forgetting to change the parameter). Most bugs I found were having the wrong variables or putting for loops in the wrong place. In one instance on another project I was working on, the fix to the bug was as simple as shifting a single line of code later, putting it inside another for loop.

This small project was a nice activity to refresh myself with code, especially since I hadn't coded in around a month.
